DTM 1025.0.0 documentation update (#4532)
SoftwareAG/c8y-docs: content/dtm/asset-types-bundle/asset-properties.md

  Property definitions can be reused in multiple asset definitions. You can build your property definitions library by adding property definitions which can be used to define any asset definition.

  To add a new Property definition, click **Add property definition**."
---

Property definitions are the parameters that define an [asset definition](#asset-definitions). One or more property definitions are used to define an asset definition. Property definitions are created in the **Property definitions** page.

To reach the **Property definitions** page, navigate to **Libraries > Property definitions**.

In the **Property definitions** page, you see tabs for different contexts: **All**, **Asset**, **Alarm**, **Measurement**, **Operation**, and **Event**. The **All** tab displays property definitions applicable to all contexts, while each other tab displays property definitions specific to that context.

When you open the DTM application, default property definitions are readily available for use. See [Default property definitions](#default-property-definitions) to view the list of properties available.

In the overview you see the following categories:

> * **Name**: Name of the property definition

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Name**: Name of the property definition.
```

> * **Key**: Unique identifier for the property definition

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Key**: Unique identifier for the property definition.
```

> * **Description**: Brief description of the property definition

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Description**: Brief description of the property definition.
```

> * **Data type**: The data type of the property definition, for example, String, Number, or Complex

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Data type**: The data type of the property definition, for example, String, Number, or Complex.
```

> * **Default**: Default value for the property definition

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Default**: Default value for the property definition.
```

> * **Min-Max**: Minimum and maximum values allowed for the property definition

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Min-Max**: Minimum and maximum values allowed for the property definition.
```

> * **Applicable to**: The asset types, alarms, measurements, operations, or events contexts to which the property definition applies

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Applicable to**: The asset types, alarms, measurements, operations, or events contexts to which the property definition applies.
```

> * **Last updated**: Date and time of the last update

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Last updated**: Date and time of the last update.
```

> * **Actions**: Available actions for the property definition

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Actions**: Available actions for the property definition.
```

Click **Configure columns** to configure the displayed columns.

Click **Reload** to reload the page.
The total number of property definitions is displayed on the bottom left of the page.

Use the **Export** and **Import** feature to transfer property definitions between tenants. This is useful for replicating property definitions in multiple tenants. By exporting and importing property definitions, you can ensure consistency and reduce the time and effort required for manual configuration. See [To export property definitions](#to-export-property-definitions) and [To import property definitions](#to-import-property-definitions) for details.

{{< c8y-admon-req >}}
ROLES & PERMISSIONS

- To add/update/delete/import property definitions: CREATE/ADMIN permission for permission type "Inventory"
{{< /c8y-admon-req >}}

### To create a property definition {#to-create-a-property-definition}

When you navigate to the **Property definitions** page for the first time, there will be no property definitions present in the system except the default property definitions. See [Default property definitions](#default-property-definitions) to view the list of property definitions available.

> To create an property definition, click **Add property definition** on the top menu bar. Enter the required data in the form (see description below) and click **Save**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To create a property definition, click **Add property definition** on the top menu bar. Enter the required data in the form (see description below) and click **Save**.
```

> ![Create a new property definiton](/images/dtm/custom-property/dtm-property-library-create-property.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Create a new property definition](/images/dtm/custom-property/dtm-property-library-create-property.png)
```

<td style="text-align:left">Optional</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

{{< c8y-admon-info>}}
The **Default value** field is only shown if the selected **Type** is either "Text" or "Number".<br/>
The default value must adhere to all validations provided beforehand.
{{< /c8y-admon-info>}}

Once you have defined all necessary property definitions for your project, you must define the [asset definitions](/dtm/asset-types/#asset-definitions).

### Property definition types {#property-definition-types}

To further define the type of content a property definition holds, you can select one of the following options listed under **Type**:

#### Text {#text}

Select **Text** if the value is a string, for example, a wind turbine manufacturer name. Enter a valid text.

 If you select **Advanced validation rules** for text, the following fields appear:

* **Min Length**:

If selected, enter the minimum length of the text that must be provided for this asset property during the asset creation. Any text below the minimum length is not accepted.

* **Max Length**:

> If selected , enter the maximum length of the text that must be provided for this asset property during the asset creation. Any text above the maximum length is not accepted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If selected, enter the maximum length of the text that must be provided for this asset property during the asset creation. Any text above the maximum length is not accepted.
```

* **RegExp**:

If selected, enter a valid regular expression. During the asset creation, you must provide the asset property value, which adheres to the regular expression.

**Example:**

If the property definition is "Generator code" with a **Min length** of 8, a **Max length** of 20, and the **RegExp** defined as "^MCGEN[a-zA-Z0-9]*$", the value must fulfill all three criteria: it must start with "MCGEN", be at least 8 characters long, and not exceed 20 characters.

If you do not select any of the restrictions above, it is not applicable for the asset property during asset creation.

#### Number {#number}

> For this type you must provide a numeric value during the asset creation, for example, the height of a wind turbine tower.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For this type, you must provide a numeric value during the asset creation, for example, the height of a wind turbine tower.
```

2. Upload the JSON file in the drop file area of the resulting dialog. The JSON file is the file containing exported property definitions from a DTM application on another tenant.
3. Click **Next** to preview the property definitions before importing them.
4. Click **Import** to import the property definitions.
5. Alternatively, click **Back** to go to previous step. Hover over the file name and click the **Delete** icon to remove the current file and upload a different one.
6. View newly imported definitions in the **Property definitions** page.

![Import property definitions](/images/dtm/custom-property/dtm-property-library-import.png)

{{< c8y-admon-info>}}
When you upload the JSON file, it undergoes validation. If the validation fails, you see a corresponding message in the dialog. Click **Download log file** to view the errors.
Review the errors that are reported, resolve them, and attempt the upload again.

You can import a maximum of 500 property definitions at a time.
You can import property definitions from any context, regardless of which tab you are currently viewing.
{{</ c8y-admon-info>}}

### Default property definitions {#default-property-definitions}

> #### Characteristics {#characteristics-of-default-property-definitions}

Reviewer: @lara-c8y There is just one heading under the heading "Default property definitions". Perhaps we can merge the headings to "Characteristics of default property definitions"? Or do you plan to add more content here in the future?

Author: @BeateRixen , I've updated the glossary. Please review.

* Default property definitions are readily available when you open the application.
* Default property definitions cannot be deleted.
* Only selected fields within a default property definition are editable and the editable fields vary depending on the specific property.
* Default properties cannot be exported.

> ### Location {#location}

Reviewer: Or should this go under the previous heading?

Author: ```suggestion
#### Location {#location}
```
I think this should also be part of previous heading

- To add/update files: CREATE/ADMIN permission for permission type "Inventory"
{{< /c8y-admon-req >}}

If selected, enter the allowed file types separated by a comma in the **Allowed file types** field. Provide the maximum file size for uploads in the **Max file size in MB** field. When you create an asset with this property definition, you can only upload files that adhere to the allowed file types with their file size not exceeding the set limit.

{{< c8y-admon-info>}}

If there is a file size limit set for the tenant, you see the limit along with the field name for **Max file size in MB**.<br>
To prevent security threats, sanitize your files beforehand.

{{< /c8y-admon-info>}}

**Example:**

To upload the schematic diagram for a wind turbine, you name the property definition "Wind turbine schematic" and specify the file type of the schematic file. Then upload the respective file. Once the asset is created, you can view this file for future reference.

#### Complex {#complex}

> A complex property definition consists of multiple key-value pairs, meaning, it contains a root object followed by one or more key-value pairs. You must define each key-value pair as well as providing a type for each pair. You can arrange the properties in the required order by dragging and dropping them. Hover over the row to see the drag icon. Click and drag the drag icon for reordering. On the right side of each key-value pair, you see an expand icon <i class="dlt-c8y-icon-expand-arrow text-muted icon-20"></i>. Click the expand icon <i class="dlt-c8y-icon-expand-arrow text-muted icon-20"></i> to see a specific property. Note that when you add a new key-value pair, it automatically expands. To hide it, click the collapse icon <i class="dlt-c8y-icon-collapse-arrow text-muted icon-20"></i>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A complex property definition consists of multiple key-value pairs, which means it contains a root object followed by one or more key-value pairs. You must define each key-value pair and provide a type for each pair. You can arrange the properties in the required order by dragging and dropping them. Hover over the row to see the drag icon. Click and drag the drag icon for reordering. On the right side of each key-value pair, you see an expand icon <i class="dlt-c8y-icon-expand-arrow text-muted icon-20"></i>. Click the expand icon <i class="dlt-c8y-icon-expand-arrow text-muted icon-20"></i> to see a specific property. Note that when you add a new key-value pair, it automatically expands. To hide it, click the collapse icon <i class="dlt-c8y-icon-collapse-arrow text-muted icon-20"></i>.
```

> A complex property definition consists of multiple key-value pairs, meaning, it contains a root object followed by one or more key-value pairs. You must define each key-value pair as well as providing a type for each pair. You can arrange the properties in the required order by dragging and dropping them. Hover over the row to see the drag icon. Click and drag the drag icon for reordering. On the right side of each key-value pair, you see an expand icon <i class="dlt-c8y-icon-expand-arrow text-muted icon-20"></i>. Click the expand icon <i class="dlt-c8y-icon-expand-arrow text-muted icon-20"></i> to see a specific property. Note that when you add a new key-value pair, it automatically expands. To hide it, click the collapse icon <i class="dlt-c8y-icon-collapse-arrow text-muted icon-20"></i>.

Reviewer: Add an image for the drag icon

> You see the preview of data model on the right side of properties section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You see the preview of the data model on the right of the **Properties** section.
```

 **Example:**

If the asset property is called "Gearbox specifications" with the key "gearbox_specifications", then power, speed increasing ratio and weight are the multiple key-value pairs defining the property "Gearbox specifications". Select the type **Complex**, enter the required information for all key-value pairs and click **Save**.

![Complex property definition](/images/dtm/custom-property/dtm-property-library-complex-property.png)

### To edit a property definition {#to-edit-a-property-definition}

> 1. Click the name of the property definition to view or edit the details. Alternatively, click **Edit** option in the action menu to the right.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Click the name of the property definition to view or edit the details. Alternatively, click **Edit** in the action menu to the right.
```

3. Click **Next** to preview the property definitions before importing them.
4. Click **Import** to import the property definitions.
5. Alternatively, click **Back** to go to previous step. Hover over the file name and click the **Delete** icon to remove the current file and upload a different one.
6. View newly imported definitions in the **Property definitions** page.

![Import property definitions](/images/dtm/custom-property/dtm-property-library-import.png)

{{< c8y-admon-info>}}
When you upload the JSON file, it undergoes validation. If the validation fails, you see a corresponding message in the dialog. Click **Download log file** to view the errors.
Review the errors that are reported, resolve them, and attempt the upload again.

You can import a maximum of 500 property definitions at a time.
You can import property definitions from any context, regardless of which tab you are currently viewing.
{{</ c8y-admon-info>}}

### Default property definitions {#default-property-definitions}

### Characteristics {#characteristics-of-default-property-definitions}

> * Default property defintions are readily available when you open the application.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Default property definitions are readily available when you open the application.
```

> * Default property defintions cannot be deleted.

Author: ```suggestion
* Default property definitions cannot be deleted.
```
